Sweet Corn & Chicken Paella

It’s summer. You know what that means…it’s hot. Yes, but it’s also corn season. There’s nothing like fresh sweet corn to really get the party started. Anyway, this recipe uses frozen corn. Don’t let that stop you. Feel free to use fresh corn right off the cob. It’ll still turn out great.

Ingredients: 

8 chicken thighs (bone-in and skin on)
1 1/2 tablespoons of salt
1 tablespoon of black pepper
2 tablespoons of Sazon
1 teaspoon of smoked paprika
1 teaspoon of garlic powder
1 teaspoon of onion powder
1/2 teaspoon of good chili powder
1/2 teaspoon of dried oregano
2 cups of rice
4 cups of chicken stock
2 cups of corn kernels (frozen or fresh)
1/2 cup of onion
1/2 cup of green bell pepper
1/2 cup of cilantro
1/2 cup of red bell pepper
4 tablespoons of olive oil, divided

1. Preheat the oven to 375. Meanwhile, in a large bowl, combine the salt, black pepper, Sazon, smoked paprika, garlic powder, onion powder, chili powder, and dried oregano. Then, liberally season the chicken thighs with the spice mixture. Arrange them on a sheet tray and roast them in the oven for about 20 minutes until they’re just done.

2. Meanwhile, make a sofrito by putting the onion, bell peppers, and cilantro in a food processor and mix it until it’s turned into pulp.

3. Get a cast iron skillet hot on the stove and add 2 tablespoons of olive oil. One the olive oil is smoking, add in the sofrito mixture. Cook for about 3-5 minutes on high heat. Then, add the remaining olive oil and the rice. Toast the rice until it’s light golden in color.

4. Add the chicken stock and corn to the pan and cook until the liquid has just about evaporated. Then, remove from the heat. Arrange the cooked chicken thighs in the rice mixture and continue cooking in the oven for about 20 minutes. The rice should be tender and crusty around the edges and the chicken should be cooked all the way through.

5. Serve by garnishing with limes and cilantro leaves.


NOTE: do not use the same teaspoon for your table spoon measurments, it will not work